Rule1: The Liberty Rule 
Every stone remaining on the board must have at least one open point, called a liberty, directly 
orthogonally adjacent (up, down, left, or right) or must be part of a connected group that has at least 
one such open point (liberty) next to it. Stones or groups of stones which lose their last liberty are 
removed from the board (called captured). 
Based on the rule of liberty, players are NOT allowed to play any “suicide” moves.
Rule 2: The “KO” Rule
The KO rule resolves the situation: If one player captures the KO, the opponent is prohibited from 
recapturing the KO immediately.
Komi 
Because Black has the advantage of playing the first move, awarding White some compensation is called 
Komi. This is in the form of giving White a score compensation at the end of the game. In this homework 
(a board size of 5x5), Komi for the White player is set to be 5/2 = 2.5. 
Passing 
A player may waive his/her right to make a move, called passing, when determining that the game offers 
no further opportunities for profitable play. A player may pass his/her turn at any time. Usually, passing 
is beneficial only at the end of the game, when further moves would be useless or even harmful to a 
player's position.  
Winning Condition
“Partial” Area Scoring: A player's partial area score is the number of stones that the player has 
occupied on the board. 
Final Scoring: The Black player’s final score is the partial area score, while the White player’s final 
score is the sum of the partial area score plus the score of compensation (Komi).  
Data Structure:
Input:
A file named input.txt file contains:
Line 1: A value of “1” or “2” indicating which color you play (Black=1, White=2) 
Line 2-6: Description of the previous state of the game board, with 5 lines of 5 values each. 
This is the state after your last move. (Black=1, White=2, Unoccupied=0) 
Line 7-11: Description of the current state of the game board, with 5 lines of 5 values each. 
This is the state after your opponent’s last move (Black=1, White=2, Unoccupied=0).  
Output:
To make a move, your agent should generate output.txt in the current directory.  - The format of placing a stone should be two integers, indicating i and j as in Figure 2, separated by a comma without whitespace.
If your agent waives the right to move, it should write “PASS” (all letters must be in uppercase) 